---
title: 关于ECP
layout: post
categories: payment
tags: ECP acquirer
---

[ECP (e-comprocessing)](https://www.e-comprocessing.com/)

[ECP API Reference](https://e-comprocessing.github.io)



### WPF

The WPF (Web Payment Form) is a customizable component of the Genesis payment gateway. It provides merchants with an intuitive user interface to easily process their customers’ payments. Through a single point of integration, the merchant can offer his customers multiple payment methods instantly and since the WPF is hosted on the secure Genesis infrastructure, it is already PCI-DSS compliant.

Processing API



card

recurring

initial recurring

subsequent recurring



tokenization

external token

gateway token



COF (credential on file)

currency and amount handling

dynamic descriptor

electronic commerce indicator

scheme response codes

manually reviewed transaction

partial approvals

### preauthorizations

`Preauthorizations` are used to request Approval for an `estimated transaction amount` because the final transaction amount will only be known some time later. This type of message is typically sent for transactions such as car rentals, hotel rooms and petrol. The reason for the preauthorization is to authenticate the card and the cardholder and also to check funds availability.

They are similar to the `final authorizations`, but have longer authorize time-frame and allow amount to be extended *(restricted per card brand)*.

Required vs Optional API params

Transaction States

Supported Card Brands

Document ID Parameter

business Attributes

Recurring Advice

### Tokenized e-commerce

E-commerce tokenization is a new way in the payment processing services that provides enhanced safety and convenience for all participants in the process. The technology is based on the replacement of sensitive payment data as PAN to DPAN (or token) and is known as Visa tokenization for Visa and Digital Secure Remote Payments (DSRP) for Mastercard.

Customer Identification Parameters



3DS

SCA (Strong Customer Authentication)

exemption

EEA (european Economic area)

ACS (Access Control Server)

PSD2