---
layout: post
title: "实践Spring之事务"
date: 2017-07-28 09:25:00 +0800
categories: 数据库
tags: database nosql spring transaction
---

## EnableTransactionManagement

Enables `Spring`'s `annotation-driven` `transaction management` capability, similar to the support found in Spring's `<tx:*>` `XML namespace`. To be used on @`Configuration` classes as follows:

```java
 @Configuration
 @EnableTransactionManagement
 public class AppConfig {
     @Bean
     public FooRepository fooRepository() {
         // configure and return a class having @Transactional methods
         return new JdbcFooRepository(dataSource());
     }

     @Bean
     public DataSource dataSource() {
         // configure and return the necessary JDBC DataSource
     }

     @Bean
     public PlatformTransactionManager txManager() {
         return new DataSourceTransactionManager(dataSource());
     }
 }
```

## TX namespace

For reference, the example above can be compared to the following Spring XML configuration:

```xml
 <beans>
     <tx:annotation-driven/>
     <bean id="fooRepository" class="com.foo.JdbcFooRepository">
         <constructor-arg ref="dataSource"/>
     </bean>
     <bean id="dataSource" class="com.vendor.VendorDataSource"/>
     <bean id="transactionManager" class="org.sfwk...DataSourceTransactionManager">
         <constructor-arg ref="dataSource"/>
     </bean>
 </beans>
```

In both of the scenarios above, `@EnableTransactionManagement` and `<tx:annotation-driven/>` are responsible for registering the necessary Spring components that power annotation-driven transaction management, such as the `TransactionInterceptor` and the `proxy-` or `AspectJ-`based advice that weave the interceptor into the call stack when JdbcFooRepository's @Transactional methods are invoked.

A minor difference between the two examples lies in the **naming** of the `PlatformTransactionManager`bean: In the `@Bean` case, the name is *"txManager"* (per the name of the method); in the XML case, the name is *"transactionManager"*. The `<tx:annotation-driven/>` is hard-wired to look for a bean named "**transactionManager**" by default, however `@EnableTransactionManagement` is more flexible; it will fall back to a **by-type** lookup for any `PlatformTransactionManager` bean in the container. Thus the name can be "txManager", "transactionManager", or "tm": it simply does not matter.

## TransactionManagementConfigurer

For those that wish to establish a more direct relationship between `@EnableTransactionManagement`and the exact transaction manager bean to be used, the `TransactionManagementConfigurer` callback interface may be implemented - notice the `implements` clause and the `@Override`-annotated method below:

```java
 @Configuration
 @EnableTransactionManagement
 public class AppConfig implements TransactionManagementConfigurer {
     @Bean
     public FooRepository fooRepository() {
         // configure and return a class having @Transactional methods
         return new JdbcFooRepository(dataSource());
     }

     @Bean
     public DataSource dataSource() {
         // configure and return the necessary JDBC DataSource
     }

     @Bean
     public PlatformTransactionManager txManager() {
         return new DataSourceTransactionManager(dataSource());
     }

     @Override
     public PlatformTransactionManager annotationDrivenTransactionManager() {
         return txManager();
     }
 }
```

This approach may be desirable simply because it is **more explicit**, or it may be necessary in order to **distinguish between two PlatformTransactionManager beans** present in the same container. As the name suggests, the annotationDrivenTransactionManager() will be the one used for processing @Transactional methods. See TransactionManagementConfigurer Javadoc for further details.

The `mode()` attribute controls how advice is applied; if the mode is `AdviceMode.PROXY` (the default), then the other attributes control the behavior of the proxying.

If the `mode` is set to `AdviceMode.ASPECTJ`, then the `proxyTargetClass()` attribute is obsolete. Note also that in this case the `spring-aspects` module JAR must be present on the classpath.